>> Jon: So another thing as we're
getting into screen readers.
Labels for forms.
This is another, one of the things that's
a bummer, is that accessibility almost
never gets taught alongside HTML when
you're learning it in the first place.
And so
it leaves you with some weird stuff.
I remember learning about form labels.
And being like,
well why would I want that?
Especially if you learn now,
where there's cool placeholders,
where it's like you get a placeholder and
it disappears as you're typing.
But labels are really important for
screen readers, even if you
visually hide them because you like
your placeholder, something like that.
It's really important to have
a label that describes the field, so
that as a user is tabbing through, they
know what they're supposed to do there.
So this is a simple example.
You can do label for and then you put
the idea of the thing it's labeling and
then any string of text in there.
So as the user tabs into it, it'll say.
>> Jon: That's a terrible label.
It'll say click me.
It should say something like
enter your username, right?
And then you could have an input type
text for them to enter their username.
So whatever you want the screen
reader to announce to the user,
that's what goes on the label and
if you don't like the UI of the label,
it's fine to visually hide it but
they still should be there.
>> Speaker 2: Ben is asking are there ways
to do automated testing of what a screen
reader could read or
how it would navigate?
>> Jon: So at the end we'll cover
some automated testing stuff,
there's not an API to
detect screen reader usage.
There's no way to do that kind of stuff,
but there are,
just using code analysis, there are some
really great tools that will cover for
automated testing that'll spot these
things for you and help you avoid them.
And a lot of them can be plugged
into your CI job or whatever.
So, yeah, we'll definitely
cover a bunch of that stuff,
there's some really great stuff out there.
Cool, so another option is this
concept of aria-labelledby.
So aria-labelledby, I say labeled by,
you can think of it as just kinda
the opposite of label, so label is for
an element and then an element could
be labeled by another element, right?
So here in this example
we've got a regular div and
then we have aria-labelledby name and so,
there's a couple of cool things
that I wanted to point out here.
One, with aria-labelledby, you can pass in
multiple elements, which is really cool.
So you can see that the input type text,
this first one here,
it is the name field, which is important.
But it also belongs to a section of
the form called your billing address.
So, if you have, this is a good example,
if you have a different billing and
shipping address it's nice to communicate
to the user which name they're entering,
is it the buyer's name or
where it's going?
So, you can pass in multiple elements,
which can give you some really great
context, like billing address name,
billing address, address, something
like that, as opposed to name, address.
Another thing that's worth mentioning
here, is using aria-labelledby can
kind of get you away from having to
necessarily use that label element,
cuz now you can have your paragraph, or
your div, or whatever you want, visually.
And still define that relationship.
Mostly I think I use aria-labelledby for
the multiple elements.
I just find that really helpful when you
have forms that are broken into sections.
Okay so
again more things off our nice check list.
Form elements.
Lets see, required form elements or form
elements that require a specific format
need to provide that within the label.
So again, if you have to fill it out or if
you have to fill it out in a certain way,
like a date that has to be month
month / year year / whatever.
However we do it in America, that both
of those things need to be in the label.
That is a required field
in how you fill it out.
That's Level 8 compliance.
And also, yeah,
just generally labels, queues, and
instructions for
any required interactive element.
So this, we kinda talked about this
a little bit before, but just the ideas,
instead of jus having this endless
list of input type text or
whatever, you give it labels.
So they know what's
supposed to go in there,
you can do labelledby stuff to give more
instruction, like how to fill it out or
specifically is it for billing or
shipping, things like that.
So pretty easy, just adding some
more HTML turns it into a really
robust application where,
as you're listening to a screen reader,
it's telling you everything you
need to fill out these forms.
Cool, so just.
>> Speaker 2: Comment?
>> Jon: Yeah, comment.
>> Speaker 2: Comment from Drew,
one nice bonus of
using actual labels is that clicking
the label focuses the corresponding field.
>> Jon: Yes,
is that not true with regular labels?
I thought that was true with both.
>> Speaker 3: If you just
use a div it wouldn't.
>> Jon: No, no, but
a div won't actually label.
Okay, yeah, so
I guess there's three approaches.
So one, which is a bad approach,
would be div, enter your name.
And then input type text.
That would be a bad approach,
because it's not very clear that
they're related to each other.
A good approach would either be div,
or I'm sorry, scratch that.
Label for name, enter your name, and
then div ID name or input ID name.
So that would work.
And then conversely,
you could do the opposite.
Or you could do a div,
with enter your name.
And then you could do input
ARIA labeled by a div.
But with a label,
clicking on the label should send you
into the form, into the input element.
But I think the trap is only when
you have them next to each other,
but they don't have
a defined relationship.
That's where you can
get into some trouble,
where they are one after another but
they're not connected.
>> Speaker 2: Another question from Ben.
>> Jon: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: For things like some help
text on a field, would it make
sense to include it in the label?
>> Jon: Yeah,
that can get kind of interesting.
So yeah, I think,
there's a few different things.
Because sometimes you have a ton of stuff,
a ton of information
about a certain thing.
So I think that whether or
not it's required and
also a format issue, how to fill something
in, would be really good additions there.
I think you might get into a little bit
more of a different approach if you have,
sometimes there's this like help text
that are like, why is this required?
And it's, all businesses in this
state need to, you know what I mean,
something like that.
In which since I think a label
wouldn't be the thing, but
you probably want something tabbable
there that you could interact with.
So I think it a little bit draws the line,
labels are really specific for that input.
If it's general help text about, why fill
out this form or something like that.
I'd probably keep that
as a separate element.
>> Speaker 2: This is from me.
[LAUGH]
>> Jon: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: Is there something
you could do, for example,
when that area gets focused,
and then display that sort of thing?
>> Jon: Yeah, so yeah, you could do
all sorts of cool stuff like that.
So you could have an on-focus
event on your thing
that could maybe even let users,
for more information, hit this,
you could also just have a tabable
element before or after it.
Probably before it, that was like you're
about to have to fill out this thing.
Yeah, and
again the user should be able to access,
the same amount of stuff,
whether they're sided or not.
But it's a little bit up to you,
cuz I think the only thing you'd wanna
worry about, is you don't want a user to
have to listen to three paragraphs of not
necessary talking,
just to enter their name.
You know what I mean,
so that's where it might get a little
bit tricky if it's not required text.
>> Speaker 4: I would also recommend the
using potentially the ARIA described by
attributes.
>> Jon: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: So where you talked
about maybe a piece of text
to follow the form element.
You could use that to associate
it with the form element,
such that the screen reader
will read the label first,
and there'll be a pause, and then
they'll hear the described by content.
>> Jon: Yeah, that's great,
yeah, so again, and yeah,
I think we'll be covering
that in a few slides.
But yeah, you can also use
the described by for after, so
yeah, that might be a really
good approach to it as well.